Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Again, welcome everyone. Thank you. Now we, again,
continue teaching on the Shirei, the Durya Mungo, the Chavu, the Evernus of the Vedas. Continue.
And today, I think we are on the page 16. I think the last line of the page is 16. Or two lines.
And again, in order to continue to follow, and again, to activate our motivations, and that is,
again, so, the foundation of the practices of meditation, and as well as also is related for the
achievement of our realization.
When we fully develop of the Durya in appreciation, free from all the, in the imprints of the
grasping of the ego clinging, then really we are reaching enlightenment. We are reaching in high
state. So therefore, Durya in appreciation, being grateful, all those are so, so important, and
that is necessary with all, and then we lead, again, bodhicapam.
Kindness, compassion, thought, reaching good things for all, living beings, without any
discrimination, from the very heart. When you feel that, not just really saying that, but reaching
that from heart and praying for that, and by the blessings and all the Buddha and the Bodhisattva,
every enlightenment, may I fulfill that goal, really reaching, sincerely from heart.
And those are known as the following footsteps of the old great Bodhisattvas, and the old linear
master. That's what they practiced with that. And then, Buddhas in Bodhisattva. So, that is really
so important, and that is part of the practice itself.
Without that, again, we won't go any further, further realization and understanding.
And with that, and then bring realization of the great three Kaya states, and all in three Kaya,
all in three Vedas states, Dharma Kaya, Sambo Kaya, and then Ma Kaya states.
So bring that realization. And which we are discussing here, as or not we discuss for a great
master of teaching, Siddha.
Master, do you look at the teaching, we are now going through all this, everything is empty, there
is nothing existing, non-existing, one after another we are going through, and also we continue
going this time, yesterday and today.
Reality, what is that? It's not nothingness states. And it's Dharma Kaya. As established in the
Dharma Kaya, exactly as it is.
But at the same time, we don't have the realization of the Dharma Kaya or this great emptiness.
Great emptiness, Dharma Kaya, Dharma Dattu, absolute nature, all those are synonyms.
And there is many names in indestructible natures. Empties. This is not just a blank status.
All everything is nothing, nothing. That is negation, or that even the word negation is in Buddhism
known as nihilism.
That is nihilism. Everything is not existing, it's all nothing existing.
That is an extreme view, view of extremes. Dzogkhi teaching, this is Dzogkhi teaching. Dzogkhi
teaching is the middle part, the center of the nature, exactly as it is.
It's pre-pronged all extremes. What made the extremes? The permanent attitude and in permanent or
nihilism attitude.
Those are the things you wanted. Another terminology, I'm sure you know those, eternalism, nihilism
.
Dzogkhi teaching is pre-pronged. Why? Because internalism, nihilism is not nature, it's extreme.
You want it to be extreme. Always like to be extreme, kind of carried forth with extreme.
It's easy to catch that than the non-attachment, no grasping. Because we are adopted that, we are
harvested that from the biggest times, become extremist.
But this time, this time, teaching what we are going through is demolishing that duality.
Because we like to hold, we like to grasp it, we like to think that is what teaching is going
through here, and as well as in Buddha teaching, all the Pandya Parama teachings.
No poem, no eye, no song. I mean, that's all. It's not kind of denying of the way things are.
Exploring the way things are, the natures. That's what a religious teaching is.
So this teaching, what we are going through is Dzogkhi teaching, Absolute teaching, and Dzogkhi
teaching means what?
Dzogkhi has, when we do the practice, Dzogkhi has two aspects. Two aspects.
Qadhartichu and Dzogapthogar. Those are roughly translated what?
Pure from beginning is Qadhartichu. Emptiness, pure from the beginning, is emptiness.
Qadhartichu, all emptiness, all dharmadhatu, all the pervasive natures, a self-born awareness of
the emptiness.
And Dzogapthogar is spontaneously inherited, all the richness.
But this time is going through, particularly this time. It's Qadhartichu teaching.
In Dzogkhi teaching, that means on the meditation view, in the level of the meditation view, med
itating on the absolute nature of our own energy, nature.
There is nothing to hold anything that exists that they can hold.
Particularly for the beginners, for example, such as us, such us, we are beginner practitioners.
Therefore, we don't immediately catch poem is emptiness, emptiness poem.
Even though reality is real, it is poem is emptiness, inseparable.
Where there is a poem, there is emptiness.
For that reason, in the teaching of the opening meditation,
relative truth and emptiness are identical, inseparable.
Great Master Nagarjuna said, there is no emptiness beside relative truth.
There is no absolute truth besides relative truth.
Relative truth. But for us, we can't catch that immediately.
Therefore, we are resting on the emptiness, can't relate more poem, because that will release the
grasping and clinging.
Clinging, it gets very, getting closer to the absolute nature. Exactly.
And those present times, our meditation is more can relate, analytic meditation with the
conceptions.
It's called the view of the analytic, view of the mind, view of the conception.
When we continually meditate, continually meditate, then it holds view of the wisdom,
view of the true nature.
That moment, then, the everything, both relative truth and absolute truth are merging.
Same way. This is also in the teaching said.
For example, Swatantar Madhima, great master Shandarachata, teach that.
First, keep the teachings on everything is the emptiness.
Can't break that emptiness realization.
Then finally, when you got the realization strong, that emptiness is not the name, that final
stages.
Go beyond the emptiness.
Yes. So, first we say, there is no poem, no song, all those mentioned in that.
But when you reach kind of good realization, then it's called beyond.
Beyond, no poems, beyond poems.
Those are in the philosophy of terminology used interpretable truth, uninterpretable truths.
And I'm sure, I think there is a good kind of terminology.
I believe that translated by many of us.
So interpretable means something that you can catch in the mind,
or everything is the emptiness.
You can catch easily.
But beyond the emptiness, or beyond the existing, is something that totally opens,
totally opens and totally releases in any duality form.
A poem is an emptiness, still we can hold.
We have almost like, we are colliding in the space with the, what's called those electric wings.
We are gliding on the ocean, or we are surfing with the ocean with the surfing balls.
But when you release that, then what?
Those great surfers, or those who have the capability, really can surf.
I call them teaching. I call them teaching. We've glided on the space.
Space, but when you have the capabilities, then you can just fly.
You don't have any sports.
So this is like interpretable, it's absolutely true.
And in an uninterpretable truth, in the Tibetan, it says, "Nambriyib taw deva, nambriy māyib taw n
and deva, nambriyib taw nand deva, nambriyib taw nand deva."
Those are, you can look to them in those Buddhist texts,
and then so many things in these days and the next.
So this time, this is what teaching here.
And now here, kind of demolish of that duality, duality, all the grasping duality,
and the aesthetic and the perfectly nature as it is Dharmakaya.
Dharmakaya, and then for that reason here, said what?
Said it. I mean, it's already said here.
Are all expensive, best-less emptiness.
All is leaded. So that is perfectly great emptiness in a Dharmakaya state.
Dharmakaya or all Dharmakaya empty their realizations.
When you get that realization.
In that state, in that Dharmakaya state, or that great emptiness state,
or great suneta in the Sanskrit state, then there is,
then such as it's said what?
And the settles, the scrubs, and the cause and the result,
virtues and the null virtues, being helped by the gods and hung by the spirits,
are the very natural, best-less, unimpeded openers.
There is nothing existing, existing as by the duality.
That means there is no borders. All is free. All is open.
All is open. Here it's translated as no cause and a result.
This cause and a result can be translated as there is no karmas.
There is no karmas. No virtues and no virtues.
No karmas. So there is none of those existence.
That is why on the Dharmakaya level, in the Kadak in the Dokhi terminology,
in the Kadak two levels, or in the other terminology in the Buddhistic,
absolute level, there is none of those existence.
Then on the relative level, existing, everything existing, all existing,
how they are existing, as medical display, illusions.
For that reason, great master Kuntimba said in his teaching, he said,
"Until we dissolve the duality into the Dharmadattu, until that duality,
until that, then by the power of duality, duality arising the medical of the interdependent."
Interdependent, magically dependent.
Through the power of the power of the duality and arising interdependent.
Interdependent is what? This is a very famous terminology, all known terminology.
It sounds like Samudapada, or the Pati Mokcha Samudapada. I think Parithya Samudapada, not Mokcha.
Parithya Samudapada.
In his debate, those great translators in the eighth century translated as Tijen Devarayuma.
Tijen Devarayuma, I call translated into English, interdependent, interdependently arising.
Interdependently arising phenomenon.
That means all these related truths are known as interdependent.
They arise. What that means, actually?
These related truths, what we see, all everything, we see all these things.
But this need cause, this need condition.
Cause and condition, there's also not just one cause, one condition.
There's multiple conditions, multiple disorders, multiple disorders.
For example, to come to this table, to have this table.
You imagine, we know how many things are needed to make this table, or to become like this table.
Then we don't see, we just sit on it heavily.
This is not just a camp table, like as it is.
It's supported by so many things. So many things.
That's called interconnected. All, that means this table came here, why?
It means there's no disturbance of stopping things on the basement, until this came.
There's no preventions. It's all supported, every way, every direction.
To begin this with a tree. The tree has to have the earth.
That has to have water. That has some degree of the moisture, or the warmth.
That has something, something for this wind movement, growth.
It's called Buddhism is bought by the wind. It's brain changing.
And then it has to have space.
Like openness, space.
This tree won't grow on the rock, solid.
Even according to Buddhism, the rock is also a very translucent space.
But due to the conditions of the certain things of the interdependent, the rock is solid.
So this comes. And then not just another tree, the wood.
Then they have all the efforts they have to do.
So many, then finally. And all, so this is called interdependent.
Interdependent connector. Therefore, great massism gives you.
Until this is all, I'm sorry, by the power of the duality.
By the power of the duality, it comes like this interconnecting systems.
As long as duality exists, that long we have the karma.
We have the karma, as long as we have the duality, that long we have karma.
Or, otherwise, we have the cold and conditions and the resulting efforts.
So therefore, in the teaching series, even though it's illusion,
it's illusion, but always thoughtful, capable with actions.
And for that reason, again, great master.
Naruba said in the teaching, so not Naruba.
The Lord said, his sishya said, son, as he called to the Lord.
The Lord called Naruba, son.
And there you have the realization of the perfect emptiness.
Don't stop. Don't stop the accumulation of two merits.
Until you are working with realization.
So that means, until you become the Buddha, please make the accumulation of two merits.
What are two merits? Accumulation of two merits,
performing all the good deeds to benefit for the other beings.
And then, Buddha meditating, meditating, and uniting, cooperating together.
Otherwise, if we follow the way, explaining in the Dukhi teachings,
or the Pandya Paramanar teachings, no eyes, no palms, no nose,
all that, exactly literally take that, then what it becomes?
Because it becomes, then we completely lost control of our own identities,
our true nature. And the way we could become, then,
was a person, individualist on the earth.
And that's what in the meditation he said, you heard the wrong ways, wrong way.
And that's what we used to, yes, a few days ago we mentioned,
great artisans said, I mean, don't tell me, his poem of the disciples said,
well, those of us who said they have realization of emptiness,
but their kind of emotion is stronger, stronger than a normal, everyday person.
Why that? And the Gita Master Ati said,
because they are keeping the will on the mouth,
will on the mouth, not in the heart.
Only kind of technically do really that.
Then, I mean, it's just completely, it's like a coyote.
For that reason, great master.
Even you have the highest realization,
as like sky, jokchin, perfect realization of the jokchin.
God will treat you, but still all the karmas,
causing the karmas, causing the karmas is resolved.
Keep that wind so kind and so subtle, so thoughtful to every aspect.
Impact in the teaching often said,
even you become the Buddha,
in the Gita Master Ati, even you become the Buddha,
do not stop the meditually activities.
Meditually activities.
Even you don't have any worries,
I'm not out of pre of the samsara and all that,
but should not perform any unwholesome activities, even the Buddha.
That tells by Buddha, for example,
Buddha Shakyamuni, who is a totally enlightened being,
he meditated in a teaching setting.
In the afternoon, when he had the lunch completed,
he washed his feet because he walking on the dirt,
dirt in the streets, get the food with the student.
Not just ask all, send his arms both and ask to bring food to him.
No, he walks with, together with all the students.
He eat as they get, send food, eat, and then he come back.
He washed his feet and he meditated in a teaching setting.
Apraṇu meditated, even he meditated.
In the morning meditated, that's really in a teaching setting.
So this is what we actually need.
But then, in the absolute level,
everything is in Dharmakaya status.
Oh, great emptiness in the Dharmadatta state.
And that state, in that point of view,
came here, said, there is no karma,
no cause and no resolve.
What is really the karma, actually?
Karma is.
Where that karma is made, where it comes from?
Of course, you all know.
Few of you don't know that.
Karma is created by one's own mind.
Mind is the dual of everything.
Mind is the cradle of the samsara.
Mind is the cradle of the nirvana.
Mind is the cradle of the karma.
Karma does not come from outside.